Well have gone through and added some materials to the rest of the objects in the scene and it looks
pretty good.
But if we look here at the metal of the paper towel holder we can see that the reflections of it are
kind of blurred or they're not very interesting.
In other words we're not getting a reflection of what the room might look like outside of the frame.
And the reason for that is because there isn't really anything outside the frame at all.
If we come down here and choose rendered viewport shading in this view we can see that everything outside
our frame is pretty much black and that's because early on if you remember we came over here to the
world panel and we changed our color at Horizon to black.
So there wasn't any ambient light bleeding into our scene.
We wanted to use just the lights that we were creating.
However there's another way to light your scene.
We can use what's called HDR images or high dynamic range images and we can put one of those images
back here in the environment have the light from the image light are seen.
But more importantly I think have something to reflect in our metallic objects.
Metal is oftentimes very hard to set up because so much of it relies on what is being reflected rather
than the material itself.
So if we wanted to add an HDR image to our scene here we would do it here in the world panel or over
here in the node editor.
So I can come over here and change to the world nodes for our node Ed..
But as you can see there isn't anything here we don't have use nodes checked.
And this use node's button is here we just need to click on this and now we can see our nodes and you
see here that use nodes has been selected.
Now what we can do is bring in an HDR image as an environment texture.
So let's go ahead and press shift A and I'll choose texture and environment.
And now we need to open it here and bring in an HDR image.
Now I've gone ahead and searched google images and found an image of a kitchen here right here and if
I click open image and then connect the node up to the background here you can see that in our background
we now have this image.
And I can tumble around in here and you can see the whole thing.
So now we have both light and reflection coming from this image and you can see the change in our render
over here.
So actually let me change this to solid and I'll go ahead and increase the size of this.
I'll hit the zero key to switch to camera view and let's zoom in a bit here.
So that image has brightened up our scene a bit and we can of course adjust the lights to get the image
the way we want it.
We can also adjust the background strength here if we want to reduce the effect of the HDR image.
We can always do that as well.
I'll just type in one again here to the background strength.
Now let's take a look at this paper towel holder.
I'll selected and frame it up.
I'll switch back over to the object nodes.
Here's our nodes for the paper towel material.
Come over here to the materials panel and switch over to the metal.
And now if we take a look at this I'm going to zoom in and let's play with the settings of our material
and see if we can get the reflection from our image in here.
So if I take the glossy down to zero you can immediately see the reflection of our HDR image in the
metal material.
So now I think we get a better sense of what that metal can look like.
Maybe I'll take the roughness back to point 1 let's see about that and maybe I'll take the mix Shater
up two point seven.
So we get a little bit more of the shine in there.
Maybe I'll take it down to point 0 5.
Let's try that every go so I think now we're getting a little bit more of the reflections that I really
would want to have from that particular material.
All right I'm going to hit zero again to go back to the camera of you now while we're here.
I wanted to point out another possible material that we could use for say the ball in the scene.
I'm going to select that.
And here we have a diffuse Shater and a glossy.
Over here you can see the diffuse and the glossy in the materials panel as well.
We could maybe change this to just to see how it's going to look to say a glass shader.
And let's see how that looks.
I'm going to go ahead and zoom into it and tumble around to get a better look at it.
Well right now it's not looking too good.
We have our glass and we have a glossy but sometimes those two don't work well together.
Let's take the factor in the mix Shater all the way down.
And then I will reduce the color in our glass here.
Something like that.
So now we're beginning to see through that glass.
Now maybe I'll bring the roughness down 2.1 and then bring the factor back up to maybe point two and
let's see what happens here.
So now we have a glass bowl with a bit of reflection in it.
You can see the fruit reflected in it and you can also see through the bowl a bit to the fruit inside.
So that glass shaker does a very good job of very quickly giving you a nice glass material.
Now the I.O. are setting here is an actual real world setting a number that describes how light moves
through a particular object.
So I've come to Wikipedia here and I'm going to scroll down and you can see here that we've got real
world IO our indices of refraction for say light soda lime glass is 1.4 six crown glass is 1.5 to water
1.3.
So these are real world settings that can help your materials react like and look like real world materials.
So if we come back to Blendr here this IO are is 1.4 5 which is a very standard index for glass.
So this is just a good starting point.
If this were ice or water or anything else you could begin adjusting this Iowa bar to get it to look
like that particular material.
So in the next video I want to talk about one more shade or node that we haven't dealt with yet.
The emission Shater.
And also let's talk about a few things that we can do to clean up our renderers.
You can see that we've got some grain here and some little fireflies going on around the reflective
objects.
Let's take a look at how we might clean those up.